# Spreadsheet Project

The Spreadsheet program is currently capable of taking in an arithmetic expression using standard infix notation. This program takes into account "PEMDAS", or the usual precedence rules for arithmetic. The input expression can consist of only "+", "-", "*", "/", left and right parentheses ("(", ")"), non-negative integers, whitespace (which will be ignored), and variables in the pattern of one or more letters (can be uppercase or lowercase) followed by one or more numbers (ex: A1, AA1...). The Spreadsheet program can consistently evaluate and return these expressions.

The Spreadsheet program has been updated (as of 27-Jan-2023) to include the DependencyGraph class and methods testing its functionality. This class works on the ability of the program to account for dependencies in a formula. An example for this would be if A1 = A2 + A3, A2 and A3 must be calculated first in order to find the value of A1. This is called a "dependency", and the DependencyGraph handles sorting dependees and dependents in a mirrored data-structure. The data structure implemented was a Dictionary(string, HashSet). This was to ensure that all operations (beside replacing values) are executed at a O(1) runtime.

The Spreadsheet program has been updated (as of 3-Feb-2023) to include a refactored Formula program. This program is similar to the first assignment 'FormulaEvaluator' program, but has been updated to work with doubles, more delegates (normalize and validate), and more specified variable names. The 'Formula' program has more functionality than the 'FormulaEvaluator' program. This class allows variables with underscores and/or no digits, which is different than the 'FormulaEvaluator'. The program has overridden methods for checking equality as well.

The Spreadsheet program has been updated (as of 9-Feb-2023) to include a re-vamped Spreadsheet class. This program is an overridden version of the AbstractSpreadsheet class, which contains methods for setting/getting cell contents and names. This Spreadsheet class contains functionality from the previous assignments, such as the DependencyGraph and Formula classes. It is important to note that the methods used come mainly from the Spreadsheet class, but there are a few methods within the AbstractSpreadsheet class that are implemented, making it an abstract class and not an interface.

The Spreadsheet program has been updated (as of 20-Feb-2023) to include an even more re-vamped Spreadsheet class. This program uses the implementation from the previous update (9-Feb-2023), and incorporates more methods from a new AbstractSpreadsheet class. The new Spreadsheet program has the ability to solve formulas and set them as a Cell's 'value'. This new class includes the functionality from the DependencyGraph and Formula classes. More methods have been added to the updated version of the AbstractSpreadsheet abstract class. These methods include XML file-reading, versioning, and new constructors.

